---
title: env
description: 160 (or fewer) character description of this document!
sections:
  - Overview
  - Usage
  - Flags
---

## Overview

Architect allows you to read & write environment variables that are immediately made available to all deployed Lambda functions. An environment variable is a variable whose value is set outside the program. Sensitive configuration data, such as API keys, needs to happen outside of the codebase in revision control. You can use this tool to ensure an entire team, and the deployment targets are in sync.

> Currently `.arc` uses AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store as a centralized backing storage mechanism for app environment variables. [Read more about AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-paramstore.html)

### The `.arc-env` File

Create a file called `.arc-env` in the root of your project to load environment variables locally in the sandbox. This file **should not** be committed into your project git repository. Always add the `.env` file extension to your `.gitignore` file.

- It's generated by adding or removing env vars using `npx env`.
- Automatically read by `arc-sandbox` and populates `process.env` when `npx sandbox` runs locally.
- Lists env vars for `testing` or `staging` for local development.

## Set environment variables

```bash
# This is an example `.arc-env` file:
@testing
FOO 1

@staging
FOO 2

@production
FOO 3
```

## Usage

- `arc env` displays environment variables for the current `.arc`
- `arc env staging FOOBAZ somevalue` writes env variable `FOOBAZ=somevalue` to staging Lambdas
- `arc env remove testing FOOBAZ` removes a `testing` env var
- `arc env verify` display a report of Lambdas and their env variables

> Things to note: `NODE_ENV`, `ARC_APP_NAME` and `SESSION_TABLE_NAME` are reserved names.

## Flags

ADD ME!

